Answers

1. Create an assert statement that throws an AssertionError if the variable spam is a negative integer.

    Ans-1: assert spam >= 0, "spam should not be a negative integer"

2. Write an assert statement that triggers an AssertionError if the variables eggs and bacon contain strings that are the same as each other, even if their cases are different.

    Ans-2: assert eggs.lower() != bacon.lower(), "eggs and bacon should not be the same (case-insensitive)"

3. Create an assert statement that throws an AssertionError every time.

    Ans-3: assert False, "This will always trigger an AssertionError"

4. What are the two lines that must be present in your software in order to call logging.debug()?

    Ans-4:

    python

    import logging
    logging.basicConfig(level=logging.DEBUG)

5. What are the two lines that your program must have in order to have logging.debug() send a logging message to a file named programLog.txt?

    Ans-5:

    import logging
    logging.basicConfig(filename='programLog.txt', level=logging.DEBUG)

6. What are the five levels of logging?

    Ans-6: DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, and CRITICAL

7. What line of code would you add to your software to disable all logging messages?

    Ans-7: logging.disable(logging.CRITICAL)

8. Why is using logging messages better than using print() to display the same message?

    Ans-8:
        Logging allows for different log levels (e.g., DEBUG, ERROR), making it easier to manage the output.
        Logging can write to files, display timestamps, and differentiate message severities.
        It’s more flexible and scalable for production environments.

9. What are the differences between the Step Over, Step In, and Step Out buttons in the debugger?

    Ans-9:
        Step Over: Executes the current line but steps over function calls.
        Step In: Steps into any function calls on the current line.
        Step Out: Runs the rest of the current function and pauses once it's complete.

10. After you click Continue, when will the debugger stop?

    Ans-10: The debugger will stop when it hits the next breakpoint or encounters an unhandled exception.

11. What is the concept of a breakpoint?

    Ans-11: A breakpoint is a marker set in code to pause execution at a specific point, allowing developers to inspect the state of the program during debugging.
